169 enhance the model section (#219)
International-Data-Spaces-Association/ids-specification: model/model.md

## 2 Dataspace Information Model

The following sections outline the Dataspace Information Model, which form the foundation of this specification.
Some aspects of this section describe additional concepts of Dataspaces and provide context for the Dataspace Protocol,

> those are considered as not-normative. Further information on the functional requirements of a Dataspace can be found  for example in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
those are considered as non-normative. Further information on the functional requirements of a Dataspace can be found  for example in
```

> the [IDSA Rulebook](https://docs.internationaldataspaces.org/idsa-rulebook).

Reviewer: I don't think these specifications should reference the Rule Book. It should only be the other way around (Rule Book -> DSP)

Author: I think we should do it in both directions. When we keep the description and definition of the data space authority and the registry out of this document, then we should at least leave a hint on a place that describes it. I think the Rulebook is a good place, but is there anything else we can refer to instead?

Reviewer: I think we should only reference other documents from the specifications if they are associated with a normative requirement. We should not have a normative requirement on the Rulebook or any other document regarding a dataspace authority since it is only a conceptual holder and is not required for interoperability.  

Having a reference to the Rulebook that implies any type of requirement will also lead to practical complications when this work is submitted to a specification group.

Author: Adding a for example to the rule book mention

### 2.1 Dataspace Entity Relationships

#### 2.1.1 Context of the Dataspace Protocol

In a broader context, the Dataspace Protocol enables the interaction between participants of

> a Dataspace. This may require addiotonal concepts, which are not in scope of this specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a Dataspace. This may require additional concepts, which are not in the scope of this specification.
```

- A [Dataspace Authority](./terminology.md#dataspace-authority) manages one or more [Dataspaces](./terminology.md#dataspace). This will include [Participant](./terminology.md#participant) registration and may entail mandating business and/or technical requirements. For example, a [Dataspace Authority](./terminology.md#dataspace-authority) may require [Participants](./terminology.md#participant) to obtain some form of business certification. A [Dataspace Authority](./terminology.md#dataspace-authority) may also impose technical requirements such as support for the technical enforcement of specific usage policies.
- A [Participant](./terminology.md#participant) is a member of one or more [Dataspaces](./terminology.md#dataspace). A [Participant](./terminology.md#participant) registers [Participant Agents](./terminology.md#participant-agent) that perform tasks on its behalf.

> - A `Dataspace Registry` manages the registered `Participant Agents` in a `Dataspace`. Registration and unregistration processes may be different depending on various aspects.

Author: Add the link to terminology

Author: done

> - A [`Dataspace Registry` or `Dataspace Registration Service`](./terminology.md#dataspace-registration-service) manages the registered `Participant Agents` in a `Dataspace`. Registration and unregistration processes may be different depending on various aspects.

Reviewer 2: I think this had been already added with #229. Please check again and prevent duplicates.

- An [Identity Provider](./terminology.md#identity-provider) is a trust anchor that generates `ID tokens` used to verify the identity of a [Participant Agent](./terminology.md#participant-agent). Multiple identity providers may operate in a [Dataspace](./terminology.md#dataspace). The types and semantics of ID tokens are not part of this specification. An [Identity Provider](./terminology.md#identity-provider) may be a third-party or a [Participant](./terminology.md#participant) itself (for example, in the case of decentralized identifiers).
- A [Credential Issuer](./terminology.md#credential-issuer) issues _verifiable credentials_ used by [Participant Agents](./terminology.md#participant-agent) to allow access to [Datasets](./terminology.md#dataset) and verify usage control.

Further information on the context of the Dataspace Protocol can be found in the [IDSA Rulebook](https://docs.internationaldataspaces.org/idsa-rulebook).

#### 2.1.2 Dataspace Protocol specific

> The Dataspace Protocol shall enable the interactions between the `ParticipantAgents` in a Dataspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Dataspace Protocol shall enable the interactions between the [Participant Agents](./terminology.md#participant-agent) in a Dataspace.
```

- 1..N [DCAT Distributions](https://www.w3.org/TR/vocab-dcat-3/#Class:Distribution). Each distribution must have at least one `DataService` which specifies where the distribution
  is obtained. Specifically, a `DataService` specifies the endpoint for initiating a [Contract Negotiation](./terminology.md#contract-negotiation) and [Transfer Process](./terminology.md#transfer-process). (DCAT PROFILE)

#### 2.2.3 Offer

An [Offer](./terminology.md#offer) is an [ODRL Offer](https://www.w3.org/TR/odrl-model/#policy-offer) with the following attributes:

- An ODRL `uid` is represented as an "@id" that is a unique identifier. (ODRL PROFILE)
- The [Offer](./terminology.md#offer) must be unique to a [Dataset](./terminology.md#dataset) since the target of the [Offer](./terminology.md#offer) is derived from its enclosing context.
- The value of the `target` attribute is the dataset id. Except if the [Offer][Catalog](./terminology.md#offer) is used in an enclosing [Catalog](./terminology.md#catalog) or [Dataset](./terminology.md#dataset), then the there must not be any `target` attribute set.

> ### 2.2.4 Agreement

Author: fixed
